---
title: Honeypot
date: 2023-03-09 10:48:10 +0300
categories: [soc, tools]
tags: [honeypot]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
#img_path: /img/
---
# Cowrie
Cowrie is an open-source honeypot software that is used to emulate a vulnerable SSH and Telnet server. It is designed to be used as a trap to detect and track hacking attempts on a network. Cowrie provides a realistic environment for attackers to interact with, which allows for the collection of valuable information on attack techniques, tools, and tactics.

Cowrie works by presenting itself as a vulnerable SSH or Telnet server. When an attacker connects to the server, Cowrie logs their activity and records any commands they attempt to execute. Cowrie can be configured to use a range of different honeypot techniques, including the emulation of a specific operating system or service, the injection of fake files or directories, and the provision of fake credentials.

One of the benefits of Cowrie is that it is highly customizable, and can be configured to suit the needs of different organizations. For example, Cowrie can be used to simulate a specific environment, such as a corporate network, or to emulate a specific type of device, such as a network router or a smart home device. Cowrie can also be configured to send alerts when certain types of activity are detected, such as the use of specific commands or the attempted exploitation of a known vulnerability.

Alternatives to Cowrie include other honeypot software such as Honeyd, Kippo, and Dionaea. Each of these tools has its own strengths and weaknesses, and the choice of tool will depend on the specific requirements of the organization. Honeyd, for example, is a highly customizable honeypot that can emulate a wide range of different services and devices. Kippo is a Python-based honeypot that is designed to be easy to install and use. Dionaea is a honeypot that focuses specifically on capturing malware samples and can be integrated with a range of different analysis tools.

### Links
[Cowrie](https://cowrie.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)

[kippo](https://github.com/desaster/kippo)

[Honeyd](https://github.com/DataSoft/Honeyd)

[mailoney](https://github.com/phin3has/mailoney): An SMTP Honeypot 