---
title: WAF
date: 2023-02-24 18:01:10 +0300
categories: [Web, waf]
tags: [waf]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
#img_path: /img/
---
A network firewall is a security device that monitors and controls incoming and outgoing network traffic based on predetermined security rules. A traditional firewall operates at the network layer (Layer 3) of the OSI model, examining traffic based on IP addresses and ports.

A web application firewall (WAF) is a specialized type of firewall that focuses specifically on web applications, which are typically accessed via a web browser. WAFs operate at the application layer (Layer 7) of the OSI model, examining traffic at the HTTP protocol level.

A WAF can be deployed as a hardware or software solution and is designed to protect web applications from a variety of attacks, including cross-site scripting (XSS), SQL injection, and other application-layer attacks. The WAF analyzes incoming traffic to determine whether it contains malicious code or behavior, and either blocks or allows the traffic based on the configured security rules.

A WAF can also provide additional security features such as SSL/TLS encryption, content filtering, and DDoS protection. It is an essential component of a comprehensive web application security strategy, particularly for applications that are publicly accessible over the internet.

**Positive Application Security** is a type of Web Application Firewall (WAF) that is designed to protect web applications against known and unknown vulnerabilities. Unlike traditional signature-based WAFs that rely on preconfigured rules to identify and block attacks, Positive Application Security uses a behavior-based approach to detect and prevent attacks in real-time.

Positive Application Security operates by analyzing the behavior of web applications to detect and prevent malicious activity. It uses various techniques, including signature-based detection, anomaly detection, and machine learning, to identify and block attacks at the application layer. Positive Application Security can also be configured to provide additional security features, such as SSL/TLS encryption, content filtering, and DDoS protection.

One of the main advantages of Positive Application Security is that it is designed to protect against zero-day vulnerabilities, which are previously unknown vulnerabilities that attackers can exploit. It is also capable of detecting and blocking attacks that bypass traditional signature-based WAFs.

Positive Application Security can be deployed as a cloud-based or on-premises solution and can be integrated with other security products to provide a comprehensive security posture. It is an essential component of a comprehensive web application security strategy and can help organizations prevent data breaches and protect their sensitive information.