---
title: YARA
date: 2023-02-18 12:12:00 +0300
categories: [system, tools]
tags: [yara, sec]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

# YARA

YARA is a powerful open-source tool that can be used for creating and sharing custom rules to identify and classify malware based on specific patterns or characteristics. Here's a simple example of how to use YARA on a Linux server:

Install YARA: First, you'll need to install YARA on your Linux server. YARA is available for a variety of operating systems, including Linux. You can download the latest version of YARA from the official website (https://yara.readthedocs.io/en/stable/gettingstarted.html) or install it using your Linux distribution's package manager.

Create a YARA rule: Once you have installed YARA, you can create a YARA rule to detect a specific malware or threat. For example, let's create a YARA rule to detect a simple backdoor malware that uses a specific string "evil_string" in its code. To create the rule, create a new file named "simple_rule.yar" and add the following code:
```bash
rule simple_backdoor
{
strings:
$evil_string = "evil_string"

condition:
        $evil_string
}
```
Compile the YARA rule: After creating the YARA rule, you need to compile it using the "yara" command. To compile the "simple_rule.yar" file, run the following command:
```bash
yara simple_rule.yar
```
This will compile the YARA rule and generate a binary file named "simple_rule.yar.compiled".

Scan a file or directory: Once you have compiled the YARA rule, you can use it to scan a file or directory for the malware that matches the rule. To scan a file or directory, run the following command:
```bash
yara simple_rule.yar.compiled /path/to/file_or_directory
```
This will scan the specified file or directory and display the results if the malware that matches the YARA rule is found.

This is a very basic example of how to use YARA on a Linux server. YARA provides many advanced features for creating complex rules and analyzing malware patterns. You can refer to the official YARA documentation (https://yara.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) for more information and examples.

[official website](https://yara.readthedocs.io)
