---
title: Content-Security-Policy
date: 2023-02-28 11:01:10 +0300
categories: [Web, nginx]
tags: [nginx, csp]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
#img_path: /img/
---
# Content-Security-Policy (CSP)
Content-Security-Policy (CSP) is an HTTP header that allows web developers to configure a whitelist of trusted sources for resources loaded by a web page. This can help prevent various types of attacks, such as cross-site scripting (XSS) and data injection attacks.

Here are some examples of how to use CSP headers:
1. Block all content from external sources:
```yaml   
Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'none';
```
This header instructs the browser to block all content from external sources, including scripts, stylesheets, images, and videos. This is a very strict policy that should only be used for pages that don't need to load any external content.
2. Allow content from specific sources:
```yaml
Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'self' https://example.com;
```
This header allows content to be loaded from the same domain as the page (self) and from https://example.com. This can be useful for pages that need to load content from trusted external sources.
3. Allow specific types of content:
```yaml
Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'self'; script-src 'unsafe-inline';
```
This header allows scripts to be loaded from the same domain as the page, but also allows inline scripts to be executed. This can be useful for pages that rely on inline scripts, but it's generally not recommended to use unsafe-inline as it can increase the risk of XSS attacks.
4. Allow all content from trusted sources:
```yaml
Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: https:;
```
This header allows content to be loaded from the same domain as the page, and also allows unsafe-inline, unsafe-eval, data: URLs, and content from any https: domain. This is a very permissive policy that should be used with caution, as it can increase the risk of security vulnerabilities.

## Links
[Mozilla Developer Network's CSP documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP)